CRITICAL + CULTURAL PRACTICE MAJOR

Explore the importance of art history, cultural theory and criticism while developing your studio practice. More than half of your program will focus on academic courses like Art History, Design History, English, Humanities, Media History, Science and Social Sciences, with the remainder of your time in studio. This interdisciplinary approach allows you to connect theory and practice, and to bring modern and contemporary approaches to the creation of material and textual culture.

FILM, VIDEO + INTEGRATED MEDIA MAJOR

Film, Video + Integrated Media offers a studio-based education that explores contemporary practices in media arts. The program offers a vibrant combination of studio work, technical instruction, theory, critical analysis, history and professional practices. This major has a focus on independent interdisciplinary learning processes and specialized technical skill development within a model of collaboration, historical and critical awareness and creative content development.


ILLUSTRATION MAJOR

Illustration reflects the changing art and design landscape. You will focus on illustrative approaches to communicating ideas and explore pictorial strategies that span across territories, histories and disciplines of commercial illustration where drawing, painting and design have always been interconnected.

PHOTOGRAPHY MAJOR

Photography offers a strong emphasis on conceptual, technical and historical knowledge, preparing you to become innovative photographers within contemporary culture. The curriculum covers a wide range of cameras, black-and-white and colour processes, archival printing, digital imaging, installations, studio and projection lighting, projected imagery, image and text and directorial work.

VISUAL ART MAJOR

The Visual Art program actively promotes the interrelationship between material practice and critical reflection through material and intellectual experimentation. This major takes into account the development of studio skills, creation, analysis and understanding within social and cultural contexts. 

Blending rigorous individual and group critiques, the Visual Art program provides a balanced integration of theory, practice and production. 

Areas of practice include:

CERAMICS - Integrate ceramic concepts and materials with sculpture, painting, drawing, print media, digital applications, design and architecture. Explore expression, conceptual development, function, decoration and mixed media approaches within scientific, technological and social contexts, both historical and contemporary.

DRAWING – As a drawing student, you will develop an understanding of the technical, perceptual and conceptual aspects of drawing and participate in the exchange of ideas and solutions. Cultivate and develop two-dimensional language and technical virtuosity in relation to contemporary art practices.

PAINTING - Through subjects ranging from the personal to the global, you will engage with a framework for formal and material exploration. Whether narrative or abstract, the curriculum allows for diverse solutions that, while acknowledging the history of painting, work toward advancing the discipline in new and innovative ways.

PRINT MEDIA - Focus on concepts and processes that shape artistic exploration, and the roles the printed image and text play in society. You will have the opportunity to learn a range of printmaking techniques, including woodblock, engraving and etching, lithography and screen-printing.

SCULPTURE - Develop ideas and concepts through the study of three-dimensional form and space. Techniques, materials and methods reflect the diversity of contemporary and traditional practices. You will be encouraged to explore sculptural approaches that include video, installation, electronic media and kinetics, as well as the production of cast or constructed objects.

NORTH ISLAND COLLEGE, GENERAL FINE ARTS MAJOR (External Degree) - In collaboration with North Island College (NIC), graduates of the NIC Fine Art and Design Diploma Program may complete an Emily Carr Bachelor of Fine Arts degree at NIC’s Comox Valley campus - you will enter in year 3 to complete 60 credits to earn your degree.
